<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
    <title>SPP E-Book</title>
    <link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    <link href="understand.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    <link href="icons.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    <link href="apple.css" media="not amzn-mobi" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:1471d124-41f0-4610-841a-a9ea7b6b3f69" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="country_rl understand theme product-specific">
  
  
  <div>
    <div class="heading"><h1 id="ref-chinese-cuisine">Chinese Cuisine</h1></div>
    <div class="introduction">
      <span class="anchor" id="ref-2019367bd5873eb7dd88e9e42ae6398c"/>
        <div class="introduction"><p class="intro">Cooking plays a central role in both Chinese society and the national psyche. When Chinese people meet, a common greeting is ‘<em>Nǐ chīfàn le ma</em>?’ (‘Have you eaten yet?’). Work, play, romance, business and family all revolve around food. The catalysts for all manner of enjoyment, meals are occasions for pleasure and entertainment, to clinch deals, strike up new friendships and rekindle old ones. To fully explore this tasty domain on home soil, all you need is a visa, a pair of chopsticks, an explorative palate and a passion for the unusual and unexpected.</p></div>
      
    </div>
    <div>
      <h2>Real Chinese Food</h2>
      
        <p class="flush-left">Because the nation so skilfully exported its cuisine abroad, your very first impressions of China were probably via your taste buds. Chinatowns the world over teem with the aromas of Chinese cuisine, ferried overseas by China’s versatile and hard-working cooks; Sundays often see diners flocking to them for ‘yum cha’ and feasts of dim sum. Chinese food is indeed a wholesome and succulent point of contact between an immigrant Chinese population and everyone else.</p>
        <p class="body-text">But what you see – and taste – abroad is usually just a wafer-thin slice of a very hefty and wholesome pie. Chinese cuisine in the West is lifted from the cookbook of an emigrant community that originated mainly from China’s southern seaboard. In a similar vein, the sing-song melodies of Cantonese were the most familiar of China’s languages in Chinatowns, even though the dialect finds little traction in China beyond Hong Kong, Macau, Guǎngdōng, parts of Guǎngxī and KTV parlours nationwide. So although you may be hard-pressed to avoid dim sum and <em>cha siu</em> in your local Chinatown, finding more ‘obscure’ specialities from elsewhere in China may still be a challenge, or an expensive proposition. The ‘Peking duck’ at your local restaurant, for example, may be at best a distant relative of the fowl fired up over fruit-tree wood in the ovens of Běijīng <em>kǎoyādiàn</em> (Peking duck restaurants).</p>
        <p class="body-text">To get an idea of the size of its diverse menu, remember that China is not that much smaller than Europe. Just as Europe is a patchwork of different nation states, languages, cultural traditions and climates, China is also a smorgasbord of dialects, languages, ethnic minorities and extreme geographic and climatic differences, despite the common Han Chinese cultural glue.</p>
        <p class="body-text">The sheer size of the land, the strength of local culture, and differences in geography and altitude mean there can be little in common between the cuisines of Xīnjiāng and Tibet, even though they are adjacent to each other. Following your nose (and palate) around China is one of the exciting ways to journey the land, so pack a sense of culinary adventure along with your travelling boots!</p>
      
      <div class="sidebar">
        
          <p class="sidebar">Search on <a href="http://www.bbcgoodfood.com">www.bbcgoodfood.com</a> for a mouth-watering selection of Chinese recipes and full instructions on throwing together some classic and lesser-known dishes from around China.</p>
        
      </div>
    </div>
    <div>
      <h2>Regional Cuisines</h2>
      
        <p class="flush-left">The evolution of China’s wide-ranging regional cuisines has been influenced by the climate, the distribution of crop and animal varieties, the type of terrain, proximity to the sea, the influence of neighbouring nations and the import of ingredients and flavours. Naturally seafood is prevalent in coastal regions of China, while in Inner Mongolia and Xīnjiāng there is a dependence on meat such as beef and lamb.</p>
        <p class="body-text">Another crucial ingredient is history. The flight of the Song court south of the Yangzi River (Cháng Jiāng) from northern Jurchen invaders in the 12th century helped develop China’s major regional cuisines. This process was further influenced by urbanisation, itself made possible by the commercialisation of agriculture and food distribution; this led to the emergence of the restaurant industry and the further consolidation of regional schools. Further impetus came from the merchants and bureaucrats who travelled the land, and from improved transport options such as the Grand Canal, which allowed for shipping ingredients and recipes between Běijīng in the north and Hángzhōu further south.</p>
        <p class="body-text">Many Chinese regions lay claim to their own culinary conventions, which may overlap and cross-pollinate each other. The cooking traditions of China’s ethnic minorities aside, Han cooking has traditionally been divided into eight schools (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">中华八大菜系; </span></span><em>zhōnghuá bādàcàixì</em>):</p>
        <p class="body-text"><strong>Chuān</strong> (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">川; </span></span>Sìchuān cuisine)</p>
        <p class="body-text"><strong>Huī</strong> (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">徽; </span></span>Ānhuī cuisine)</p>
        <p class="body-text"><strong>Lǔ</strong> (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">鲁; </span></span>Shāndōng cuisine)</p>
        <p class="body-text"><strong>Mǐn</strong> (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">闽; </span></span>Fújiàn cuisine)</p>
        <p class="body-text"><strong>Sū</strong> (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">苏; </span></span>Jiāngsū cuisine)</p>
        <p class="body-text"><strong>Xiāng</strong> (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">湘; </span></span>Húnán cuisine)</p>
        <p class="body-text"><strong>Yuè</strong> (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">粤; </span></span>Cantonese/Guǎngdōng cuisine)</p>
        <p class="body-text"><strong>Zhè</strong> (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">浙; </span></span>Zhèjiāng cuisine).</p>
        <p class="body-text">Although each school is independent and well defined, it is possible to group these eight culinary traditions into northern, southern, western and eastern cooking.</p>
        <p class="body-text">A common philosophy lies at the heart of Chinese cooking, whatever the school. Most vegetables and fruits are <em>yīn</em> foods, generally moist and soft, possessing a cooling effect while nurturing the feminine aspect. <em>Yáng</em> foods – fried, spicy or with red meat – are warming and nourish the masculine side. Any meal should harmonise flavours and achieve a balance between cooling and warming foods.</p>
      
      <div class="sidebar">
        
          <p class="sidebar">You will be charged for a wrapped-up packet of a hand-cleaning wipe or tissues if you open it at your restaurant table; if you don’t use it, it should not appear on your bill.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h3>Northern Chinese Cooking</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">With Shāndōng (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">鲁菜; </span></span><em>lǔcài)</em> – the oldest of the eight regional schools of cooking – at its heart, northern cooking also embraces Běijīng, northeastern (Manchurian) and Shānxī cuisine, creating the most time-honoured and most central form of Chinese cooking.</p>
          <p class="body-text">In the dry northern Chinese wheat belt, an accent falls on millet, sorghum, maize, barley and wheat rather than rice (which requires lush irrigation by water to cultivate). Particularly well suited to the harsh and hardy winter climate, northern cooking is rich and wholesome (northerners partially attribute their taller size, compared to southern Chinese, to its effects). Filling breads – such as <em>mántou</em> (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">馒头</span></span>) or <em>bǐng</em> (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">饼; </span></span>flat breads) – are steamed, baked or fried, while noodles may form the basis of any northern meal. (The ubiquitous availability of rice means it can always be found, however.) Northern cuisine is frequently quite salty, and appetising dumplings (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">铰子; </span></span><em>jiǎozi)</em> are widely eaten – usually boiled and sometimes fried.</p>
          <p class="body-text">As Běijīng was the principal capital through the Yuan, Ming and Qing dynasties, Imperial cooking is a chief characteristic of the northern school. Peking duck is Běijīng’s signature dish, served with typical northern ingredients – pancakes, spring onions and fermented bean paste. You can find it all over China, but it’s only true to form in the capital, roasted in ovens fired up with fruit-tree wood.</p>
          <p class="body-text">With China ruled from 1644 to 1911 by non-Han Manchurians, the influence of northeast cuisine <em>(dōngběi cài)</em> has naturally permeated northern cooking, dispensing a legacy of rich and hearty stews, dense breads, preserved foods and dumplings.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Meat roasting is also more common in the north than in other parts of China. Meats in northern China are braised until falling off the bone, or slathered with spices and barbecued until smoky. Pungent garlic, chives and spring onions are used with abandon and also employed raw. Also from the northwest is the Muslim Uighur cuisine.</p>
          <p class="body-text">The nomadic and carnivorous diet of the Mongolians also infiltrates northern cooking, most noticeably in the Mongolian hotpot and the Mongolian barbecue. Milk from nomadic herds of cattle, goats and horses has also crept into northern cuisine – as yoghurts <em>(suānnǎi)</em>, for example.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Some hallmark northern dishes:</p>
          <table><thead><tr><th>
                  PINYIN
                </th><th>
                  SCRIPT
                </th><th>
                  ENGLISH
                </th></tr></thead>
            <tbody>
              
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>Běijīng kǎoyā</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">北京烤鸭</span></span></td>
                <td>Peking duck</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>jiāo zhá yángròu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">焦炸羊肉</span></span></td>
                <td>deep-fried mutton</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>jiǎozi</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">饺子</span></span></td>
                <td>dumplings</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>mántou</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">馒头</span></span></td>
                <td>steamed buns</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>qīng xiāng shāo jī</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">清香烧鸡</span></span></td>
                <td>chicken wrapped in lotus leaf</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>ròu bāozi</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">肉包子</span></span></td>
                <td>steamed meat buns</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>sān měi dòufu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">三美豆腐</span></span></td>
                <td>sliced bean curd (tofu) with Chinese cabbage</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>shuàn yángròu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">涮羊肉</span></span></td>
                <td>lamb hotpot</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>sì xǐ wánzi</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">四喜丸子</span></span></td>
                <td>steamed and fried pork, shrimp and bamboo shoot balls</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>yuán bào lǐ jí</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">芫爆里脊</span></span></td>
                <td>stir-fried pork tenderloin with coriander</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>zào liū sān bái</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">糟溜三白</span></span></td>
                <td>stir-fried chicken, fish and bamboo shoots</td>
              </tr>
            </tbody>
          </table>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h3>Southern Chinese Cooking</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">The southern Chinese – particularly the Cantonese – historically spearheaded successive waves of immigration overseas, leaving aromatic constellations of Chinatowns around the world. Consequently, Westerners most often associate this school of cooking with China.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Typified by Cantonese (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">粤菜; </span></span><em>yuècài)</em> cooking, southern cooking lacks the richness and saltiness of northern cooking and instead coaxes more subtle aromas to the surface. The Cantonese astutely believe that good cooking does not require much flavouring, for it is the <em>xiān</em> (natural freshness) of the ingredients that marks a truly high-grade dish. Hence the near-obsessive attention paid to the freshness of ingredients in southern cuisine.</p>
          <p class="body-text">The hallmark Cantonese dish is dim sum (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">点心; </span></span>Mandarin: <em>diǎnxīn)</em>. Yum cha (literally ‘drink tea’) – another name for dim sum dining – in Guǎngzhōu and Hong Kong can be enjoyed on any day of the week. Dishes, often in steamers, are wheeled around on trolleys so you can see what's available to order. Well-known dim sum dishes include <em>guōtiē</em> (a kind of fried dumpling), <em>shāomài</em> (a kind of open pork dumpling), <em>chāshāobāo</em> (pork-filled bun) and <em>chūnjuǎn</em> (spring rolls). The extravagantly named <em>fèngzhuǎ</em> (phoenix claw) is the ever-popular steamed chicken’s feet. <em>Xiǎolóngbāo</em> (steamed dumplings) are often sold in dim sum restaurants but are traditionally from Shànghǎi.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Local esteem for Cantonese food is evident in a popular Chinese saying: ‘Be born in Sūzhōu, live in Hángzhōu, eat in Guǎngzhōu and die in Líuzhōu’. (Sūzhōu was famed for its good-looking people, Hángzhōu was a lovely place to live in, Guǎngzhōu was the best place to eat while Liǔzhōu was famed for the wood of its coffins!)</p>
          <p class="body-text">Fújiàn (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">闽菜; </span></span><em>mǐncài</em>) cuisine is another important southern cooking style, with its emphasis on light flavours and, due to the province’s proximity to the East China Sea, seafood.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Hakka cuisine from the disparate and migratory Hakka people (Kèjiāzú) is another feature of southern Chinese cooking, as is the food of Cháozhōu in eastern Guǎngdōng.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Rice is the primary staple of southern cuisine. Sparkling paddy fields glitter across the south; the humid climate, plentiful rainfall and well-irrigated land means that rice has been farmed here since the Chinese first populated the region during the Han dynasty (206 BC–AD 220).</p>
          <p class="body-text">Some southern-school dishes:</p>
          <table><thead><tr><th>
                  PINYIN
                </th><th>
                  SCRIPT
                </th><th>
                  ENGLISH
                </th></tr></thead>
            <tbody>
              
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>bái zhuó xiā</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">白灼虾</span></span></td>
                <td>blanched prawns with shredded scallions</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>dōngjiāng yánjú jī</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">东江盐焗鸡</span></span></td>
                <td>salt-baked chicken</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>gālí jī</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">咖喱鸡</span></span></td>
                <td>curried chicken</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>háoyóu niúròu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">蚝油牛肉</span></span></td>
                <td>beef with oyster sauce</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>kǎo rǔzhū</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">烤乳猪</span></span></td>
                <td>crispy suckling pig</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>mì zhī chāshāo</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">密汁叉烧</span></span></td>
                <td>roast pork with honey</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>shé ròu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">蛇肉</span></span></td>
                <td>snake</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>tángcù lǐjī/gǔlǎo ròu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">糖醋里脊</span></span>/<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">咕老肉</span></span></td>
                <td>sweet-and-sour pork fillets</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>tángcù páigǔ</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">糖醋排骨</span></span></td>
                <td>sweet-and-sour spare ribs</td>
              </tr>
            </tbody>
          </table>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h3>Western Chinese Cooking</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">The cuisine of landlocked western China, a region heavily dappled with ethnic shades and contrasting cultures, welcomes the diner to the more scarlet end of the culinary spectrum. The trademark ingredient of the western school is the fiercely hot red chilli, a potent firecracker of an ingredient that floods dishes with an all-pervading spiciness. Aniseed, coriander, garlic and peppercorns are thrown in for good measure to add extra pungency and bite.</p>
          <p class="body-text">The standout cuisine of the western school is fiery Sìchuān (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">川菜; </span></span><em>chuāncài</em>) food, one of China’s eight regional cooking styles, renowned for its eye-watering peppery aromas. One of the things that differentiates Sìchuān cooking from other spicy cuisines is the use of ‘flower pepper’ <em>(huājiāo),</em> a numbing, peppercorn-like herb that floods the mouth with an anaesthetising fragrance in a culinary effect termed <em>málà</em> (numb and hot). A Sìchuān dish you can find cooked up by chefs across China is the delicious sour cabbage fish soup (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">酸菜鱼; </span></span><em>suāncàiyú</em>)<em>,</em> which features wholesome fish chunks in a spicy broth. The Chóngqìng hotpot is a force to be reckoned with but must be approached with a stiff upper lip (and copious amounts of liquid refreshment). If you want a hotpot pitched between spicy and mild, select a <em>yuanyang</em> hotpot <em>(yuānyāng huǒgūo)</em>, a vessel divided yin-yang style into two different compartments for two different soup bases. Sìchuān restaurants are everywhere in China: swarming around train stations, squeezed away down food streets or squished into street markets with wobbly stools and rickety tables parked out front.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Another of China’s eight regional schools of cooking, dishes from Húnán (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">湘菜; </span></span><em>xiāngcài</em>) are similarly pungent, with a heavy reliance on chilli. Unlike Sìchuān food, flower pepper is not employed and instead spicy flavours are often sharper, fiercer and more to the fore. Meat, particularly in Húnán, is marinated, pickled or otherwise processed before cooking, which is generally by stir- or flash-frying.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Cuisine in Tibet includes <em>tsampa</em> (porridge of roasted barley flour), <em>bö cha</em> (yak-butter tea), <em>momos</em> (dumplings filled with vegetables or yak meat), <em>thugpa</em> (noodles with meat), <em>thenthuk</em> (fried noodle squares) as well as <em>shemdre</em> (rice, potato and yak-meat curry).</p>
          <p class="body-text">Some western-school dishes:</p>
          <table><thead><tr><th>
                  PINYIN
                </th><th>
                  SCRIPT
                </th><th>
                  ENGLISH
                </th></tr></thead>
            <tbody>
              
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>bàngbàng jī</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">棒棒鸡</span></span></td>
                <td>shredded chicken in a hot pepper and sesame sauce</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>Chóngqìng huǒguō</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">重庆火锅</span></span></td>
                <td>Chóngqìng hotpot</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>dāndan miàn</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">担担面</span></span></td>
                <td>spicy noodles</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>gānshāo yán lǐ</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">干烧岩鲤</span></span></td>
                <td>stewed carp with ham and hot-and-sweet sauce</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>huíguō ròu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">回锅肉</span></span></td>
                <td>boiled and stir-fried pork with salty-and-hot sauce</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>málà dòufu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">麻辣豆腐</span></span></td>
                <td>spicy tofu</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>Máoshì Hóngshaōròu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">毛氏红烧肉</span></span></td>
                <td>Mao family braised pork</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>shuǐ zhǔ niúròu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">水煮牛肉</span></span></td>
                <td>spicy fried and boiled beef</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>shuǐzhǔyú</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">水煮鱼</span></span></td>
                <td>fried and boiled fish, garlic sprouts and celery</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>suāncàiyú</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">酸菜鱼</span></span></td>
                <td>sour-cabbage fish soup</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>yú xiāng ròusī</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">鱼香肉丝</span></span></td>
                <td>fish-flavour pork strips</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>zhàcài ròusī</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">榨菜肉丝</span></span></td>
                <td>stir-fried pork or beef tenderloin with tuber mustard</td>
              </tr>
            </tbody>
          </table>
        
        <div class="sidebar">
          
            <p class="sidebar">Spanish traders in the early Qing dynasty first introduced the red chilli pepper to China. Not only a spice, chillies are also a rich source of vitamins A and C.</p>
          
        </div>
      </div>
      <div>
        <h3>Eastern Chinese Cooking</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">The eastern school of Chinese cuisine derives from a fertile region of China, slashed by waterways and canals, glistening with lakes, fringed by a long coastline and nourished by a subtropical climate. Jiāngsū province itself is the home of Jiāngsū (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">苏菜; </span></span><em>sūcài</em>) cuisine – one of the core regions of the eastern school – and is famed as the ‘Land of Fish and Rice’, a tribute to its abundance of food and produce. The region has been historically prosperous, and in today’s export-oriented economy the eastern provinces are among China’s wealthiest. This combination of riches and bountiful food has created a culture of epicurism and gastronomic enjoyment.</p>
          <p class="body-text">South of Jiāngsū, Zhèjiāng (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">浙菜; </span></span><em>zhècài</em>) cuisine is another cornerstone of Eastern cooking. The Song dynasty saw the blossoming of the restaurant industry here; in Hángzhōu, the southern Song-dynasty capital, restaurants and teahouses accounted for two-thirds of the city’s business during a splendidly rich cultural era. One of Hángzhōu’s most famous dishes, <em>dōngpō ròu</em> (named after the celebrated poet and governor of Hángzhōu, Su Dongpo), was invented during this era.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Generally more oily and sweeter than other Chinese schools, the eastern school revels in fish and seafood, reflecting its geographical proximity to major rivers and the sea. Fish is usually <em>qīngzhēng</em> (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">清蒸; </span></span>steamed) but can be stir-fried, pan-fried or grilled. Hairy crabs <em>(dàzháxiè)</em> are a Shànghǎi speciality between October and December. Eaten with soy, ginger and vinegar and downed with warm Shàoxīng wine, the best crabs come from Yangcheng Lake. The crab is believed to increase the body’s <em>yīn</em> (coldness), so <em>yáng</em> (warmth) is added by imbibing lukewarm rice wine with it. It is also usual to eat male and female crabs together.</p>
          <p class="body-text">As with Cantonese food, freshness is a key ingredient in the cuisine, and sauces and seasonings are only employed to augment essential flavours. Stir-frying and steaming are also used, the latter with Shànghǎi’s famous <em>xiǎolóngbāo,</em> steamer buns filled with nuggets of pork or crab swimming in a scalding meat broth. Learning how to devour these carefully without the meat juice squirting everywhere and scalding the roof of your mouth (or blinding your neighbour) requires some (quite enjoyable) practice.</p>
          <p class="body-text">With a lightness of flavour, Ānhuī (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">徽菜; </span></span><em>huīcài</em>) cuisine – one of China’s eight principle culinary traditions and firmly in the eastern cooking sphere – puts less emphasis on seafood. Braising and stewing of vegetables and wildlife from its mountainous habitats is a pronounced feature of this regional cuisine.</p>
          <p class="body-text">China’s best soy sauce is also produced in the eastern provinces, and the technique of braising meat using soy sauce, sugar and spices was perfected here. Meat cooked in this manner takes on a dark mauve hue auspiciously described as ‘red’, a colour associated with good fortune.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Famous dishes from the eastern school:</p>
          <table><thead><tr><th>
                  ENGLISH
                </th><th>
                  SCRIPT
                </th><th>
                  ENGLISH
                </th></tr></thead>
            <tbody>
              
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>gōngbào jīdīng</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">宫爆鸡丁</span></span></td>
                <td>spicy chicken with peanuts, aka <em>kung pao</em> chicken</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>háoyóu niúròu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">蚝油牛肉</span></span></td>
                <td>beef with oyster sauce</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>hóngshāo páigǔ</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">红烧排骨</span></span></td>
                <td>red-braised spare ribs</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>hóngshāo qiézi</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">红烧茄子</span></span></td>
                <td>red-cooked aubergine</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>hóngshāo yú</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">红烧鱼</span></span></td>
                <td>red-braised fish</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>huǒguō</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">火锅</span></span></td>
                <td>hotpot</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>húntùn tāng</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">馄饨汤</span></span></td>
                <td>wonton soup</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>jiācháng dòufu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">家常豆腐</span></span></td>
                <td>‘homestyle’ tofu</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>jiǎozi</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">饺子</span></span></td>
                <td>dumplings</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>jīdànmiàn</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">鸡蛋面</span></span></td>
                <td>noodles and egg</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>qīngjiāo ròupiàn</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">青椒肉片</span></span></td>
                <td>pork and green peppers</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>shāguō dòufu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">沙锅豆腐</span></span></td>
                <td>bean-curd (tofu) casserole</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>suānlàtāng</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">酸辣汤</span></span></td>
                <td>hot-and-sour soup</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>tiěbǎn niúròu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">铁板牛肉</span></span></td>
                <td>sizzling beef platter</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>xīhóngshì chǎojīdàn</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">西红柿炒鸡蛋</span></span></td>
                <td>fried egg and tomato</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>xīhóngshì jīdàntāng</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">西红柿鸡蛋汤</span></span></td>
                <td>egg and tomato soup</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>xīhóngshì niúròu</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">西红柿牛肉</span></span></td>
                <td>beef and tomato</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>yúxiāng qiézi</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">鱼香茄子</span></span></td>
                <td>fish-flavoured aubergine</td>
              </tr>
            </tbody>
          </table>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h3>Home-Style Dishes</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Besides China’s regional cuisines, there is a tasty variety of <em>jiāchángcài</em> (homestyle) dishes you will see all over the land, cooked up in restaurants and along food streets.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Notable <em>jiāchángcài</em> dishes:</p>
          <table><thead><tr><th>
                  PINYIN
                </th><th>
                  SCRIPT
                </th><th>
                  ENGLISH
                </th></tr></thead>
            <tbody>
              
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>jiāng cōng chǎo xiè</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">姜葱炒蟹</span></span></td>
                <td>stir-fried crab with ginger and scallions</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>mìzhī xūnyú</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">蜜汁熏鱼</span></span></td>
                <td>honey-smoked carp</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>níng shì shànyú</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">宁式鳝鱼</span></span></td>
                <td>stir-fried eel with onion</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>qiézhī yúkuài</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">茄汁鱼块</span></span></td>
                <td>fish fillet in tomato sauce</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>qīng zhēng guìyú</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">清蒸鳜鱼</span></span></td>
                <td>steamed Mandarin fish</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>sōngzǐ guìyú</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">松子鳜鱼</span></span></td>
                <td>Mandarin fish with pine nuts</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>suānlà yóuyú</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">酸辣鱿鱼</span></span></td>
                <td>hot-and-sour squid</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>xiǎolóngbāo</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">小笼包</span></span></td>
                <td>steamer buns</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>yóubào xiārén</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">油爆虾仁</span></span></td>
                <td>fried shrimp</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>zhá hēi lǐyú</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">炸黑鲤鱼</span></span></td>
                <td>fried black carp</td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <em>zhá yúwán</em>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">炸鱼丸</span></span></td>
                <td>fish balls</td>
              </tr>
            </tbody>
          </table>
        
      </div>
    </div>
    <div>
      <h2>Dining Ins &amp; Outs</h2>
      <div>
        <h3>Table Manners</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Chinese meal-times are generally relaxed affairs with no strict rules of etiquette. Meals can commence in a Confucian vein before spiralling into total Taoist mayhem, fuelled by incessant toasts with <em>báijiǔ</em> (a white spirit) or beer and furious smoking by the men.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Meals typically unfold with one person ordering on behalf of a group. When a group dines, a selection of dishes is ordered for everyone to share rather than individual diners ordering a dish just for themselves. As they arrive, dishes are placed communally in the centre of the table or on a lazy Susan, which may be revolved by the host so that the principal guest gets first choice of whatever dish arrives. It is common practice and not impolite (unless messy) to use your own chopsticks to serve yourself straight from each dish. Soup may appear midway through the meal or at the end. Rice often arrives at the end of the meal; if you would like it earlier, just ask. Chinese diners will often slurp their noodles quite noisily, which is not considered to be impolite.</p>
          <p class="body-text">It is good form to fill your neighbours’ tea cups or beer glasses when they are empty. To serve yourself tea or any other drink without serving others first is bad form; appreciation to the pourer is indicated by gently tapping the middle finger on the table.</p>
          <p class="body-text">When your teapot needs a refill, signal this to the waiter by simply taking the lid off the pot.</p>
          <p class="body-text">It’s best to wait until someone announces a toast before drinking your beer; if you want to get a quick shot in, propose a toast to the host. The Chinese do in fact toast each other much more than in the West – often each time they drink. A formal toast is conducted by raising your glass in both hands in the direction of the toastee and crying out <em>gānbēi</em> (literally, ‘dry the glass’) which is the cue to drain your glass in one hit – this can be quite a challenge if your drink is 65% <em>báijiǔ.</em> Your glass will be rapidly refilled to the top after you drain it, in preparation for the next toast (which may rapidly follow).</p>
          <p class="body-text">Smokers can light up during the meal, unless they are in the nonsmoking area of a restaurant. Depending on the restaurant, smokers may smoke through the entire meal. If you are a smoker, ensure you hand around your cigarettes to others, which is standard procedure.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Don’t use your chopsticks to point at people or gesticulate with them – and never stick your chopsticks upright in bowls of rice (it’s a portent of death).</p>
          <p class="body-text">Last but not least, don't insist on paying for the bill if someone else is tenaciously determined to pay – usually the person who invited you to dinner. By all means offer to pay, but then raise your hands in mock surrender when resistance is met: to pay for a meal when another person is determined to do it is to make them lose face.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Chinese toothpick etiquette is similar to that found in other Asian nations: one hand excavates with the toothpick, while the other hand shields the mouth.</p>
        
        <div class="sidebar">
          
            <p class="sidebar">It is quite common for banquets and dinners in China to finish abruptly, as everyone stands up and walks away in unison with little delay.</p>
          
        </div>
      </div>
      <div>
        <h3>Desserts &amp; Sweets</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">The Chinese do not generally eat dessert, but fruit – typically watermelon <em>(xīguā)</em> or oranges <em>(chéng)</em> – often concludes a meal. Ice cream can be ordered in some places, but in general sweet desserts <em>(tiánpǐn)</em> are consumed as snacks and are seldom available in restaurants.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h3>Breakfast</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Breakfast in China is generally light, simple and over and done with quickly. The meal may consist of merely a bowl of rice porridge (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">粥; </span></span><em>zhōu)</em> or its watery cousin, rice gruel (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">稀饭; </span></span><em>xīfàn)</em>. Pickles, boiled eggs, steamed buns, fried peanuts and deep-fried dough sticks (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">油条; </span></span><em>yóutiáo)</em> are also popular, washed down with warm soybean milk. Breakfast at your Chinese hotel may consist of some or all of these.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Coffee is rarely drunk at breakfast time, unless the family is modern, urban and middle-class, but it’s easy to find in cafes, especially in large towns. Sliced bread (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">面包; </span></span><em>miànbāo)</em> was once rare but is increasingly common, as is butter (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">黄油; </span></span><em>huángyóu)</em>.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h3>Drinks</h3>
        <div>
          <h4>Tea</h4>
          
            <p class="flush-left">An old Chinese saying identifies tea as one of the seven basic necessities of life, along with firewood, oil, rice, salt, soy sauce and vinegar. The Chinese were the first to cultivate tea, and the art of brewing and drinking it has been popular since Tang times (AD 618–907). Tea is to the Chinese what fine wine is to the French: a beloved beverage savoured for its fine aroma, distinctive flavour and pleasing aftertaste.</p>
            <p class="body-text">China has three main types of tea: green tea <em>(lǜ chá)</em>, black tea <em>(hóng chá)</em> and <em>wūlóng</em> (a semifermented tea, halfway between black and green tea). In addition, there are other variations, including jasmine <em>(cháshuǐ)</em> and chrysanthemum <em>(júhuā chá)</em>. Some famous regional teas of China are Fújiàn’s <em>tiě guānyīn,</em> <em>pú’ěrh</em> from Yúnnán and Zhèjiāng’s <em>lóngjǐng</em> tea. Eight-treasure tea <em>(bābǎo chá)</em> consists of rock sugar, dates, nuts and tea combined in a cup; it makes a delicious treat.</p>
          
        </div>
        <div>
          <h4>Beer</h4>
          
            <p class="flush-left">If tea is the most popular drink in China, then beer (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">啤酒; </span></span><em>píjiǔ)</em> is surely second. Many towns and cities have their own brewery and label, although a remarkable feat of socialist standardisation ensures a striking similarity in flavour and strength. You can drink bath tubs of the stuff and still navigate a straight line. If you want your beer cold, ask for <em>liáng de</em> (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">凉的</span></span>); if you want it truly arctic, call for <em>bīngzhèn de</em> (<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">冰镇的</span></span>).</p>
            <p class="body-text">The best-known beer is Tsingtao, made with Láo Shān mineral water, which lends it a sparkling quality. It was originally a German beer, since the town of Qīngdǎo (formerly spelt ‘Tsingtao’) was once a German concession; the Chinese inherited the brewery, which dates to 1903, along with Bavarian brewing methods.</p>
            <p class="body-text">Several foreign beers are also brewed in China and there's a growing market for craft brews in the wealthier cities. If you crave variety, many of the bars we list should have a selection of foreign imported beers; prices will be high, however.</p>
          
        </div>
        <div>
          <h4>Wine</h4>
          
            <p class="flush-left">Surging demand for imported wines has seen China remain the world’s largest consumer of red wine in recent years. Expensive French reds <em>(hóngjiǔ)</em> are treasured in a fashionable market that was only finding its feet a mere 17 years ago. Wine has become the drink of choice among an increasingly sophisticated business class eager to appear discerning and flamboyant. Unfortunately this also means you can pay way over the odds at restaurants in Shànghǎi or Běijīng for imported wines. White wine consumption in China is increasingly associated with female drinkers.</p>
            <p class="body-text">China has also cultivated vines and produced wine for an estimated 4000 years, and Chinese wines are generally cheaper than imports from abroad. The provinces of Xīnjiāng and Níngxià, in the distant northwest of China, are famous for their vineyards.</p>
          
        </div>
        <div>
          <h4>Spirits</h4>
          
            <p class="flush-left">The word ‘wine’ gets rather loosely translated – many Chinese ‘wines’ are in fact spirits. Maotai, a favourite of Chinese drinkers, is a very expensive spirit called <em>báijiǔ</em> made from sorghum (a type of millet) and used for toasts at banquets. The cheap alternative is Erguotou, distilled in Běijīng but available all over China; look out for the Red Star (Hongxing) brand. <em>Báijiǔ</em> ranges across the alcohol spectrum, from milder forms to around 65% proof. Milder rice wine is intended mainly for cooking rather than drinking but can be drunk warm like sake.</p>
          
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
  
  
</div>
  </body>
</html>