<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
    <title>SPP E-Book</title>
    <link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    <link href="back.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    <link href="icons.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    <link href="apple.css" media="not amzn-mobi" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:1471d124-41f0-4610-841a-a9ea7b6b3f69" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="country_rl back behind-the-scenes product-specific">
  
  
  <div>
    <h1 id="ref-behind-the-scenes">Behind the Scenes</h1><div class="feedback"><h3>Send Us Your Feedback</h3><p class="flush-left">We love to hear from travellers – your comments keep us on our toes and help make our books better. Our well-travelled team reads every word on what you loved or loathed about this book. Although we cannot reply individually to postal submissions, we always guarantee that your feedback goes straight to the appropriate authors, in time for the next edition. Each person who sends us information is thanked in the next edition – the most useful submissions are rewarded with a selection of digital PDF chapters.</p><p class="body-text">Visit <a href="http://lonelyplanet.com/contact">lonelyplanet.com/contact</a> to submit your updates and suggestions or to ask for help. Our award-winning website also features inspirational travel stories, news and discussions.</p><p class="body-text">Note: We may edit, reproduce and incorporate your comments in Lonely Planet products such as guidebooks, websites and digital products, so let us know if you don’t want your comments reproduced or your name acknowledged. For a copy of our privacy policy visit <a href="http://lonelyplanet.com/privacy">lonelyplanet.com/privacy</a>.</p></div>
    <div>
      <h2>Our Readers</h2>
      
        <p class="flush-left">
          <strong>Many thanks to the travellers who used the last edition and wrote to us with helpful hints, useful advice and interesting anecdotes:</strong>
        </p>
        <p class="flush-left"><strong>A</strong> Alexander Luijt, Alexandra Coley, Alistair Hayes, Andrew Smith, Anne Agersted <strong>B</strong> Brian Favell <strong>C</strong> Cedric Schelfhaut, Charlotte Toolan, Chris Purslow, Christoph Messmer, Ciriaco Vicente-Mazariegos, Constantin Berger <strong>D</strong> Daniel Gauthier, David Evans, Donald Ross <strong>E</strong> Erik Ainley <strong>F</strong> Ferry Quast, Frans van Eijk <strong>G</strong> Gabriele Corsetti, Geoff Crowhurst, Georg Fernkorn <strong>J</strong> James Lindsay, Jérôme Andrey, Jim Wilcox, Johannes Voit, John Hobkinson, Jon Wisloff, Julien Chapuis, Juul Scheffers <strong>K</strong> Katherine Perez, Kathleen Vennens, Kellie Simms <strong>L</strong> Laurence Markens <strong>M</strong> Massimiliano Ammannito, Mateusz Poślednik, Mathias Herr, Michele Martin, Michelle Josselyn <strong>P</strong> Paolo Priotto <strong>R</strong> Ralph Pringsheim, Raul Cruz Sierra, Rebecca Lagomarsino, Richard Barnett, Rita Selke, Ron Crawford, Ron Perrier <strong>S</strong> Sandy Dance, Sara Santambrogio, Scott Mills, Shohei Takashiro, Stijn Eeckhaut, Susanne Badertscher <strong>T</strong> Tom de Bruin, Tricia Fort <strong>W</strong> Wouter Kolkman <strong>Y</strong> Yana Yout, Yu Hongyuan <strong>Z</strong> Zy Zhang</p>
      
    </div>
    <div>
      <h2>Writer Thanks</h2>
      <div>
        <h4>Damian Harper</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Much gratitude to Xiao Xue, Mr Zhang, Jason, Li Chengyuan, Grace, Kathy with the perfect English, Margaux, Alvin, Dai Min, Ann Harper, Ba and Ma, the lovely couple who befriended and helped me on the bus outside Datong and all the countless offers of help and guidance from one of the friendliest nations on this planet. Thanks to all of you.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Piera Chen</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Thanks to the Lonely Planet team, and to my friends Janine Cheung and Yuen Ching-sum for their generous assistance. Thanks also to my husband Sze Pang-cheung and daughter Clio for their patience and wonderful support.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Megan Eaves</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Many thanks to my incredible China writers, especially Damian Harper and Phillip Tang for taking on giant chunks of research. Vega Liu and Coco Guan at LPCN. Gratitude to the Fujianese monks who rescued me when I was stranded at Tiantishan. As always, Dave Carroll, Jen Carey and Tom Hall, who continue to trust me to run off to China for three weeks and actually come back to the office. And Bill, who forever supports my random need to just go be by myself in the desert for awhile.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>David Eimer</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Special gratitude goes to Emi Yang for her invaluable assistance. Thanks also to Cathy and Lijuan in Jinghong for their inside knowledge, as well as to Megan Eaves at Lonely Planet. As ever, thanks to the many people along the way who passed on tips, whether knowingly or unwittingly.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Helen Elfer</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">A huge <span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">谢谢 </span></span>to everyone I met on this trip who patiently answered questions and offered advice, also to friends past and present who made my time in China so memorable. Particular gratitude to bona fide China Hands Casey and Mike Hall for all sorts of logistical, technical and moral support, plus heaps of fun. And finally thanks to Orlando for coming along for the ride, to China and in general.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Daisy Harper</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">For time and effort, big thanks as ever to Margaux, Alvin too, Dai Ruibin, Liu Meina, Jamie Chen, Li Jiaqi, Sun Rong and Jackie Zhang. I am also very grateful to my husband and to Jiafu and Jiale, all ever helpful and patient. Thanks also to everyone else I bumped in to along the way who made my job that bit easier.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Trent Holden</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">First up a massive thanks to Megan Eaves for commissioning me on <em>Beijing</em>. A massive honour indeed to cover a city of this magnitude. Also wanted to say a big thank you to fellow LP colleagues based in the Beijing office, including Vega Liu for all your great tips, beers and assistance along the way, and Guan ‘Coco’ Yuanyuan for letting me use the office as a temporary workspace – a big help! A shout out to everyone who I shared a beer with, and the tips on places to check out. As always lots of love to my girlfriend Kate Morgan, and all my family and friends in Melbourne and London.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Stephen Lioy</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Makiko, for being a patient partner in travel and life – no matter how long the trips become. Jason, for being a steadfast and reliable friend. See you on the trail soon, I hope. Alina, for being an endless source of information. See you in five more years or so? Becky (of teaandprayerflags.com), for being a far more engaged and invested traveller of Tibetan regions than me, and for making sure that those who follow have the deepest experience possible.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Shawn Low</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Thanks goes to Jamin Lobsang, Tashi and Tsebtim for showing me the parts of the the world you love and know so well. I also depended on the kindness of strangers: for tips, rides and company. To Megan for sending me back to China and to Wyn-Lyn for your constant support!</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Tom Masters</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Enormous thanks to the people who helped me research this tough destination. Particularly effusive gratitude to Jacob Schickler, who joined me on the road to take pictures for two superb weeks, and whose library of work on Xinjiang is simply superb. I’ve decided not to thank anyone personally inside Xinjiang here, due to the political sensitivities there, but a big shout out to the tour guides, hostel employees, intredpid taxi drivers and bloggers I met on my travels, you know who you are!</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Emily Matchar</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Thanks to Megan Eaves and the rest of the LP team for their terrific work. Thanks to Mao Mao for her excellent hot pot suggestions. Thanks to the staff of Travelling With hostel in Chongqing for all their help and advice. And thanks to my husband, Jamin Asay, for accompanying me on this exploration of the hilly terrain and ultra-spicy food of this part of China.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Bradley Mayhew</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Thanks to Tenzin and Dechen at Tibet Highland Tours for their help, and to guides Jamyang and Lobsang for their patience. <em>Tashi delek</em> to Sandra Braunfels for coming along on yet another Kailash trek. Cheers also to Jamin York and Sonam Jamphel.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Rebecca Milner</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">I’m indebted to Frank, Marian, Nikki, Ping and so many others whose small kindnesses were deeply felt. Chris P: your advice was so helpful. Megan: this was such an amazing experience, thank you! M&amp;D: none of this would have been possible without you, in so many ways. C, your support means the world to me.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Kate Morgan</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Thanks to Destination Editor, Megan Eaves, for commissioning me for this great project. Big thanks to Pat Rogers and Chris Rogers for some excellent Shànghǎi suggestions, and thanks very much to my parents Heather and Gary for all of their support. Most important thank you goes to my favourite person and travel partner, Trent, for always being there for me and for all the laughs along the way.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Tom Spurling</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">To Lucy, for following me around the world. To Oliver &amp; Poppy, for keeping our spirits up when we just wanted to go home. To Marcus, for the Jiangxi shuffle and for supporting my television career. To Mo Laoshi, for the local wisdom. To Megan, for the stellar opportunity. And to all the citizens of the PRC, for the sincere enthusiasm towards a traveller who was too busy not getting lost at times to pay you sufficient attention.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h4>Phillip Tang</h4>
        
          <p class="flush-left">I’m incredibly grateful to <span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">邹嘉 </span></span>in Shěnyáng not only for hospitality, but for your viciously good knowledge. Big thanks to Megan Eaves, Nigel Chin and Ali Lemer for keen eyes and guidance. Thanks to all the Chinese people for warmth in their towns - Jimmy in Guǎngzhōu, Wayne in Méizhōu, <span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">小民</span></span>in Yánjí, Ted in Wǔdàlián Chí and borderlands, and especially Gorden in Cháozhōu. Reflective thanks to family in Guǎngzhōu.</p>
        
      </div>
    </div>
    <div>
      <h2>Acknowledgements</h2>
      
        <p class="flush-left">Climate map data adapted from Peel MC, Finlayson BL &amp; McMahon TA (2007) ‘Updated World Map of the Köppen-Geiger Climate Classification’, <em>Hydrology and Earth System Sciences</em>, 11, pp1633–44.</p>
        <p class="flush-left">Cover photograph: Chinese Traditional Opera, Julian W/Shutterstock ©</p>
        <p class="flush-left">Illustrations: Forbidden City and The Bund by Michael Weldon.</p>
      
    </div>
    <div class="this-book-box">
      <h2>This Book</h2>
      
        <p class="list-c">This 15th edition of Lonely Planet’s <em>China</em> guidebook was researched and written by Damian Harper,Piera Chen, Megan Eaves, David Eimer, Helen Elfer, Daisy Harper,Trent Holden, Stephen Lioy, Shawn Low, Tom Masters,Emily Matchar, Bradley Mayhew, Rebecca Milner, Kate Morgan,Christopher Pitts, Tom Spurling and Phillip Tang. This guidebook was produced by the following:</p>
        <p class="list-c"><strong>Destination Editor</strong> Megan Eaves</p>
        <p class="list-c"><strong>Product Editors</strong> Kate Chapman, Catherine Naghten</p>
        <p class="list-c"><strong>Senior Cartographer</strong> Julie Sheridan</p>
        <p class="list-c"><strong>Book Designer</strong> Mazzy Prinsep</p>
        <p class="list-c"><strong>Assisting Editors</strong> Sarah Bailey, Judith Bamber, Michelle Bennett, Carolyn Boicos, Nigel Chin, Grace Dobell, Andrea Dobbin, Bruce Evans, Samantha Forge, Carly Hall, Paul Harding, Gabby Innes, Helen Koehne, Kellie Langdon, Ali Lemer, Anne Mason, Kate Mathews, Anne Mulvaney, Lauren O’Connell,Charlotte Orr, Susan Paterson,Vicky Smith, Tracy Whitmey,Amanda Williamson, Simon Williamson</p>
        <p class="list-c"><strong>Cartographers</strong> Hunor Csutoros, Julie Dodkins, James Leversha</p>
        <p class="list-c"><strong>Cover Researcher</strong> Naomi Parker</p>
        <p class="list-c"><strong>Thanks to</strong> Jane Atkin, Joe Bindloss, Cheree Broughton, Jennifer Carey, David Carroll, Neill Coen, Daniel Corbett, Coco Guan, Gemma Graham, Jane Grisman, Corey Hutchison, Andi Jones, Lauren Keith, Indra Kilfoyle, Chris LeeAck, Vega Liu, Claire Naylor, Karyn Noble, Laura Noiret, Tom O’Malley, Ellie Simpson, Nav Sushil, Dora Whitaker</p>
      
    <p class="flush-left"><strong>Ebook thanks to </strong>Andrew Bigger, Ruth Cosgrove, Julie Dodkins, Blazej Hadzik, Craig Kilburn, Chris Love, Wayne Murphy, Jacqui Saunders, John Taufa, Glenn van der Knijff, Yanxiang Wang, Juan Winata.</p></div>
  </div>
  
  
</div>
  </body>
</html>