<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
    <title>SPP E-Book</title>
    <link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    <link href="plan.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    <link href="icons.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    <link href="apple.css" media="not amzn-mobi" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:1471d124-41f0-4610-841a-a9ea7b6b3f69" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="country_rl plan first-time product-specific">
  
  
  <div>
    <h1 id="ref-first-time-china">First Time China</h1>
    <div class="module1">
      <div>
        <h2>Checklist</h2>
        
          
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Check the validity of your passport</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Make any necessary bookings (for accommodation and travel)</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Secure your visa and additional permits well in advance</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Check what clothing you will need</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Check the airline baggage restrictions</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Organise travel insurance</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Check if you can use your mobile/cell phone</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Work out your itinerary</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Inform your credit/debit-card company</p>
          
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h2>What to Pack</h2>
        
          
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Passport</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Credit card</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Phrasebook</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Money belt</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Travel plug</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Medical kit</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Insect repellent</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Mobile-phone charger</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Sunscreen</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Sunhat and shades</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Waterproof clothing</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Torch</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Pocketknife</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Earplugs</p>
          
        
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="module2">
      <div>
        <h3>Top Tips for Your Trip</h3>
        
          
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Be patient and understand that many things you may take for granted – orderly queues, international levels of English ability, personal space – may not exist.</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Although they are not that user friendly, choosing to take local buses instead of taxis could mean you're the only foreigner on board and a local could well strike up a conversation with you.</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Sightseeing on foot is also an excellent way to get under the skin of Chinese cities and towns.</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Treat China as an adventure and learning curve, rather than purely as a holiday.</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp>Dining in local street markets is a great way to eat out of your comfort zone and discover the full, flavoursome variety of Chinese cooking.</p>
          
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h3>What to Wear</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">You can pretty much wear casual clothes throughout your entire journey in China, unless dining in a smart restaurant in Shànghǎi, Běijīng or Hong Kong, when you may need to dress less casually. In general, trousers (pants) and shirts or tees for guys, and dresses, skirts or trousers for women will serve you well nationwide; shorts and short sleeves are generally fine in summer, but don long trousers and long sleeves in the evenings to keep mosquitoes at bay. A sunhat can be invaluable. A thin waterproof coat and sturdy shoes are a good idea for all-weather hiking and sightseeing. Winter is a different ball game up north and especially at altitude: you’ll need several layers, thick shirts, jerseys and warm coats, jackets, gloves, socks and a hat.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h3>Sleeping</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">China’s accommodation choices are enormously varied, even though most hotels still do not accept foreigners. Top-tier cities have a rich variety of sleeping options; other towns can have a poor supply, despite being inundated with visitors. Rural destinations are largely a patchwork of homesteads and hostels, with the occasional boutique-style choice in big-ticket villages.</p>
          
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp><strong>Hotels</strong> From two-star affairs with very limited English and simple rooms to international-level, five-star towers and heritage hotels.</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp><strong>Hostels</strong> Exist across China in growing numbers, usually offering dorm beds and double rooms and dispensing useful travel advice.</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp><strong>Homestays</strong> In rural locations, you can often find double rooms in converted houses, with meals provided.</p>
          
        
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="module3">
      <div>
        <h3>Money</h3>
        
          
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp><strong>Credit cards</strong> Credit and debit cards are increasingly accepted in tourist towns and big cities, particularly Visa and MasterCard. Ask if bars and restaurants take cards before ordering.</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp><strong>ATMs</strong> There are 24-hour ATMs available at Bank of China and ICBC branches.</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp><strong>Changing money</strong> You can change money at hotels, large branches of Bank of China, some department stores and international airports. Some towns don’t have any money-changing facilities, so make sure you carry enough cash.</p>
          
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h3>Bargaining</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Haggling is standard procedure in markets and shops (outside of department stores and malls) where prices are not clearly marked. There's no harm in coming in really low, but remain polite at all times. In touristy markets in Shànghǎi and Běijīng, vendors can drop as low as 25% of the original price.</p>
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h3>Tipping</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Tipping is never done at cheap restaurants in mainland China. Smart, international restaurants will encourage tipping, but it is not obligatory and it’s uncertain whether wait staff receive their tips at the end of the night.</p>
          <p class="body-text">Hotel restaurants automatically add a 15% service charge; some high-end restaurants may do the same.</p>
        
      </div>
    </div>
    <div class="module4">
      <div>
        <h3>Etiquette</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">China is a pretty relaxed country regarding etiquette, but be aware of a few things:</p>
          
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp><strong>Greetings and goodbyes</strong> Shake hands, but never kiss someone’s cheek. Say <em>‘Nihǎo’</em> for hello and <em>‘Zàijiàn’</em> (or increasingly just 'Bye bye') for goodbye</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp><strong>Asking for help</strong> To ask for directions start with <em>‘Qǐng wèn….’</em> (‘Can I ask…’); say <em>‘Duìbuqǐ’</em> ('Sorry') to apologise.</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp><strong>Religion</strong> Dress sensitively when visiting Buddhist (especially in Tibet) and Taoist temples, churches and mosques.</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp><strong>Eating and drinking</strong> Help fill your neighbour’s plate at the dinner table; toast the host and others at the table; at the start of dinner, wait till toasting starts before drinking from your glass; offer your cigarettes around if you smoke; always offer to buy drinks in a bar but never fight over the drink/food tab if someone else wants to pay (but do offer at least once).</p>
            <p class="list-b"><samp class="bullet_arrow">A</samp><strong>Gestures</strong> Don’t use too many hand movements or excessive body language.</p>
          
        
      </div>
      <div>
        <h3>Booking Ahead</h3>
        
          <p class="flush-left">Reserving a room, even if only for the first night of your stay, is the best way to ensure a smooth start to your trip. These phrases should see you through a call if English isn’t spoken.</p>
          <table>
            <tbody>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <strong>Hello</strong>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">你好</span></span></td>
                <td>
                  <em>Nǐhǎo</em>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <strong>I would like to book a room</strong>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">我想订房间</span></span></td>
                <td>
                  <em>Wǒ xiǎng dìng fángjiān</em>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <strong>a single room</strong>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">单人间</span></span></td>
                <td>
                  <em>dānrén jiān</em>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <strong>a double room</strong>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">双人间</span></span></td>
                <td>
                  <em>shuāngrén jiān</em>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <strong>My name is…</strong>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">我叫</span></span>…</td>
                <td>
                  <em>Wǒ jiào…</em>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <strong>from… to… (date)</strong>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">从</span></span>…<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">到</span></span>…</td>
                <td>
                  <em>cóng… dào…</em>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <strong>How much is it per night/person?</strong>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">每天</span></span>/<span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">个人多少钱？</span></span></td>
                <td>
                  <em>Měi tiān/gè rén duōshǎo qián?</em>
                </td>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <strong>Thank you</strong>
                </td>
                <td><span class="script japanese"><span class="script chinese simplified">谢谢你</span></span></td>
                <td>
                  <em>Xièxie nǐ</em>
                </td>
              </tr>
            </tbody>
          </table>
        
      </div>
    </div>
    <div>
      <h3>Language</h3>
      
        <p class="flush-left">It is entirely possible to travel around China hardly hearing any English at all. Tourist-industry employees across the land are more likely to speak English; in the big cities such as Shànghǎi, Běijīng and, of course, Hong Kong, English is more widely spoken and understood, but generally only among educated Chinese. In smaller towns and the countryside, English is often of little or no use: the vast majority of Chinese do not speak the language at all.</p>
      
    </div>
  </div>
  
  
</div>
  </body>
</html>